doc/website/blog: v0.14.0 announcement (#2041)
ariga/atlas: doc/website/blog/2023-08-31-atlas-v-0-14.mdx

very exciting improvements for Atlas:

* **Checkpoints** - as your migration directory grows, replaying it from scratch can become annoyingly slow. Checkpoints
  allow you to save the state of your database at a specific point in time and replay migrations from that point forward.
* **Push to the Cloud** - you can now push your migration directory to [Atlas Cloud](https://atlasgo.cloud)
  directly from the CLI. Think of it like `docker push` for your database migrations.
* **JetBrains Editor Support** - After launching our [VSCode Extension](2023-05-16-vscode-extension.md) a few months
  ago, our team has been hard at work to bring the same experience to JetBrains IDEs. Starting today, you can use
  Atlas directly from your favorite JetBrains IDEs (IntelliJ, PyCharm, GoLand, etc.) using the new
  [Atlas plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22307-atlas-hcl).

Let's dive right in!

### Checkpoints

Suppose your project has been going on for a while, and you have a migration directory with 100 migrations. Whenever
you need to install your application from scratch (such as during development or testing), you need to replay all 

> of them from start to finish to set up your database. Depending on your setup, this may take a few seconds or more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
migrations from start to finish to set up your database. Depending on your setup, this may take a few seconds or more.
```

```

This will create a SQL file, which is our checkpoint:
```sql title="20230830123813_checkpoint.sql"
-- atlas:checkpoint

-- Create "t1" table
CREATE TABLE `t1` (`c1` int NULL, `c2` int NULL);
-- Create "t2" table
CREATE TABLE `t2` (`c1` int NULL, `c2` int NULL);
```

Notice two things:
1. The `atlas:checkpoint` directive which indicates that this file is a checkpoint.
2. The SQL statement to create the `t1` table included both the `c1` and `c2` columns and does not contain the
   `alter table` statement. This is because the checkpoint includes the state of the database at the time it was created,
   which can be thought of as the sum of all migrations that were applied up to that point.

Next, let's apply these migrations on a local SQLite database:

```shell
atlas migrate apply --url sqlite://local.db
```
Atlas prints:
```text
Migrating to version 20230830123813 (1 migrations in total):

  -- migrating version 20230830123813
    -> CREATE TABLE `t1` (`c1` int NULL, `c2` int NULL);
    -> CREATE TABLE `t2` (`c1` int NULL, `c2` int NULL);
  -- ok (960.465µs)

  -------------------------
  -- 6.895124ms
  -- 1 migrations
  -- 2 sql statements
```

> Observe that as expected, Atlas skipped all of the migrations up to the checkpoint and only applied the last one!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As expected, Atlas skipped all of the migrations up to the checkpoint and only applied the last one!
```

### Push to Cloud

As we demonstrated above, once we have a migration directory, we can apply it to a database. If your database
is running locally this is easy enough, but building deployment pipelines to production databases is more involved.

> There are multiple ways to accomplish this, such as building custom Docker images, as most methods covered in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to accomplish this, such as building custom Docker images, as show in most methods covered in the
```

You can think of it as `docker push` for your database migrations.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
    <img src="https://atlasgo.io/uploads/versioned/migrate-push1.jpg" alt="atlas migrate push" width="100%"/>
    <p style={{fontSize: 12}}>Migration Directory created with <code>atlas migrate push</code></p>
</div>

Continuing with our example from above, let's push our migration directory to Atlas Cloud.

To start, you'll need to [log in to Atlas](https://auth.atlasgo.cloud/signup). If it's your first time, you'll be
prompted to create both an account and a workspace.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="web" label="Via Web">

```bash
atlas login
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="token" label="Via Token">

```bash
atlas login --token "ATLAS_TOKEN"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

After logging in, let's name our new migration project `pushdemo` and run:

```shell
atlas migrate push pushdemo --dev-url "sqlite://file?mode=memory&_fk=1"
```

After our migration directory is pushed, Atlas prints a URL to the created directory, similar to the one shown in the
image above.

Once your migration directory is pushed, you can use it to apply migrations to your database directly from

> the cloud, just as you would execute `docker run` to run a container image that is stored in Docker container registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the cloud, just as you would execute `docker run` to run a container image that is stored in the Docker container registry.
```

To apply a migration directory directly from the cloud, run:

```shell
atlas migrate apply --dir atlas://pushdemo --url sqlite://local.db
```

Notice two flags that we used here:
* `--dir` - specifies the URL of the migration directory. We used `atlas://pushdemo` to indicate that we want to use

>   the migration directory named `pushdemo` that we pushed earlier.  This directory is accessible to us because we used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the migration directory named `pushdemo` that we pushed earlier. This directory is accessible to us because we used
```

  `atlas login` in a previous step.
* `--url` - specifies the URL of the database we want to apply the migrations to. In this case, we used the same SQLite
  database that we used earlier.

### JetBrains Editor Support

JetBrains makes some of the most popular IDEs for software developers, including IntelliJ, PyCharm, GoLand, and more.
We are happy to announce that following our recent release of the [VSCode Extension](2023-05-16-vscode-extension.md),
we now have a plugin for JetBrains IDEs as well!

The plugin is built to make editing Atlas HCL files much easier by providing developers with

> syntax highlighting, code completion, and warnings.  It supports both `atlas.hcl` project configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
syntax highlighting, code completion, and warnings. It supports both `atlas.hcl` project configuration
```
